Resiliency in .NET content (#37270)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/resilience/http-resilience.md

```

---

## Add resilience handlers to an HTTP client

To add resilience to an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, you chain a call on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> type which is returned from calling any of the available <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.HttpClientFactoryServiceCollectionExtensions.AddHttpClient%2A> methods. There are several resilience-centric extensions available, some are standard employing various industry best practices, and others are more customizable.

### The standard resilience handler

The standard resilience handler uses multiple resilience strategies with default options to send the requests and handle any transient errors. The standard resilience handler is added by calling the `AddStandardResilienceHandler` extension method.

```csharp
// A service collection is manually instantiated for this example.
// If you're using a generic host, you'll instead use its service collection:
//
// var host = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);
// host.Services.AddHttpClient<ExampleClient>(client => { ... });

var services = new ServiceCollection();

> services.AddHttpClient<ExampleClient>(client =>

Reviewer: capture the result here i.e. `IStandardResilienceHandlerBuilder` and note that it contains addiotional extensions to configure the handler.

    {
        client.BaseAddress = new Uri("https://example.com");
    })
    .AddStandardResilienceHandler();
```

The preceding code:

- Adds an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> for the `ExampleClient` type to the service container.
- Configures the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to use `"https://example.com"` as the base address.
- Adds a standard resilience handler to the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.

#### Standard resilience handler defaults

The default configuration chains five resilience strategies in the following order (from the outermost to the innermost):

| Order | Strategy | Description |
|--:|--|--|
| **1** | Rate limiter | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. |

> | **2** | Total request timeout | Total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request including hedging attempts, does not exceed the configured limit. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **2** | Total request timeout | Total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request including retry attempts, does not exceed the configured limit. |
```

The hedging strategy is included for `AddStandardHedgingHandler`

> | **2** | Total request timeout | Total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request including hedging attempts, does not exceed the configured limit. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **2** | Total request timeout | The total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request, including hedging attempts, does not exceed the configured limit. |
```

| **3** | Retry | The retry pipeline retries the request in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. |
| **4** | Circuit breaker | The circuit breaker blocks the execution if too many direct failures or timeouts are detected. |

> | **5** | Attempt timeout | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if its exceeded. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **5** | Attempt timeout | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if it's exceeded. |
```

### The standard hedging handler

> The standard hedging handler wraps the execution of the request with a standard hedging mechanism. The standard hedging handler is added by calling the `AddStandardHedgingHandler` extension method.

Reviewer: Might add a note what hedging does: it retries slow requests in parallel

- Exposes a `GetCommentsAsync` method that sends a GET request to the `"/comments"` endpoint and returns the response.

The `Comment` type is defined as follows:

:::code source="snippets/http-resilience/Comment.cs":::

#### Standard hedging handler defaults

The standard hedging uses a pool of circuit breakers to ensure that unhealthy endpoints are not hedged against. By default, the selection from the pool is based on the URL authority (scheme + host + port).

> [!TIP]
> It's recommended that you configure the way the strategies are selected by calling `StandardHedgingHandlerBuilderExtensions.SelectPipelineByAuthority`.

To use the standard hedging handler, call `AddStandardHedgingHandler` extension method. The following example configures the `ExampleClient` to use the standard hedging handler.

```csharp
builder.AddStandardHedgingHandler();
```

The preceding code, adds the standard hedging handler to the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder>. The default configuration chains five resilience strategies in the following order (from the outermost to the innermost):

| Order | Strategy | Description |
|--:|--|--|

> | **1** | Total request timeout | Total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request including hedging attempts, does not exceed the configured limit. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **1** | Total request timeout | The total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request, including hedging attempts, does not exceed the configured limit. |
```

> | **2** | Hedging | The hedging strategy executes the requests against multiple endpoints in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **2** | Hedging | The hedging strategy executes the requests against multiple endpoints in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. |
```

The routing is optional, by default it just hedges agains the url provided in the original HttpRequestMessage

| **3** | Rate limiter (per endpoint) | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. |
| **4** | Circuit breaker (per endpoint) | The circuit breaker blocks the execution if too many direct failures or timeouts are detected. |

> | **5** | Attempt timeout (per endpoint) | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if its exceeded. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **5** | Attempt timeout (per endpoint) | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if it's exceeded. |
```

> ### Customize resilience handlers

Reviewer: Shall we also mention more advanced features such as resolving the options from DI and enabling dynamic reloads of pipelines?

Author: Absolutely, let's do that. Could you please share some of those specific examples here?

```csharp
builder.AddResilienceHandler("CustomPipeline", static builder =>
{
    // See: https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/retry.html
    builder.AddRetry(new RetryStrategyOptions<HttpResponseMessage>
    {
        BackoffType = DelayBackoffType.Exponential,
        MaxRetryAttempts = 5,
        UseJitter = true
    });

    // See: https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/circuit-breaker.html
    var options = new CircuitBreakerStrategyOptions<HttpResponseMessage>()
    {
        SamplingDuration = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(10),
        FailureRatio = 0.2,
        MinimumThroughput = 3,
        ShouldHandle = static args =>
        {
            // Handles HTTP status codes 408 and 429.
            return ValueTask.FromResult(args is
            {
                Outcome.Result.StatusCode:
                    HttpStatusCode.RequestTimeout or HttpStatusCode.TooManyRequests
            });
        }
    };
    builder.AddCircuitBreaker(options);

    // See: https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/timeout.html
    builder.AddTimeout(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(5));
});
```

The preceding code:

> - Adds a resilience handler with the `"CustomPipeline"` as the `pipelineName` to the service container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Adds a resilience handler with the name `"CustomPipeline"` as the `pipelineName` to the service container.
```

- Adds a retry strategy with exponential backoff, five retries, and jitter preference to the resilience builder.

> - Adds a circuit breaker strategy with a sampling duration of 10 seconds, a failure ratio of 0.2 (20%), a minimum throughput of three, and a predicate that handles `RequestTimeout` and `TooManyRequests` status codes to the resilience builder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Adds a circuit breaker strategy with a sampling duration of 10 seconds, a failure ratio of 0.2 (20%), a minimum throughput of three, and a predicate that handles `RequestTimeout` and `TooManyRequests` HTTP status codes to the resilience builder.
```

- Adds a timeout strategy with a timeout of five seconds to the resilience builder.

There are many options available for each of the resilience strategies. For more information, see the [Polly docs: Strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies).

## Example usage

> You app relies on [dependency injection](../extensions/dependency-injection.md) to resolve the `ExampleClient` and its corresponding <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, but for this example, since the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceCollection> was manually instantiated this code builds the <xref:System.IServiceProvider> and resolves the `ExampleClient` from it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You app relies on [dependency injection](../extensions/dependency-injection.md) to resolve the `ExampleClient` and its corresponding <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> but, for this example, since the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceCollection> was manually instantiated, this code builds the <xref:System.IServiceProvider> and resolves the `ExampleClient` from it.
```

---
title: "Build resilient HTTP apps: Key development patterns"
description: Learn how to build resilient HTTP apps using the Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience NuGet package.
author: IEvangelist
ms.author: dapine
ms.date: 10/19/2023
---

# Build resilient HTTP apps: Key development patterns

> Building robust HTTP apps that can recover from transient fault errors is a common requirement. This article assumes that you've already read the [Introduction to resilient app development](index.md), as this article builds upon the core concepts conveyed. To help build resilient HTTP apps, the [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience) NuGet package provides resilience mechanisms specifically for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>. This NuGet package is built on top of the `Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience` library and _Polly_, which is a popular open-source project. For more information, see [Polly](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Building robust HTTP apps that can recover from transient fault errors is a common requirement. This article assumes that you've already read [Introduction to resilient app development](index.md), as this article builds upon the core concepts conveyed. To help build resilient HTTP apps, the [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience) NuGet package provides resilience mechanisms specifically for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>. This NuGet package is built on top of the `Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience` library and _Polly_, which is a popular open-source project. For more information, see [Polly](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly).
```

Reviewer 3: Can you avoid using both "builds upon" and "built on" in this paragraph? It seems a bit repetitive.

## Get started

To use resilience-patterns in HTTP apps, install the [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience) NuGet package.

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience --version 8.0.0
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience" Version="8.0.0" />
```

---

For more information, see [dotnet add package](../tools/dotnet-add-package.md) or [Manage package dependencies in .NET applications](../tools/dependencies.md).

## Add resilience to an HTTP client

To add resilience to an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, you chain a call on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> type that is returned from calling any of the available <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.HttpClientFactoryServiceCollectionExtensions.AddHttpClient%2A> methods. For more information, see [IHttpClientFactory with .NET](../extensions/httpclient-factory.md).

> There are several resilience-centric extensions available, some are standard, thus employing various industry best practices, and others are more customizable. When adding resilience, you should only add one resilience handler and avoid stacking handlers. If you need to add multiple resilience handlers, you should consider using the `AddResilienceHandler` extension method, which allows you to customize the resilience strategies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are several resilience-centric extensions available. Some are standard, thus employing various industry best practices, and others are more customizable. When adding resilience, you should only add one resilience handler and avoid stacking handlers. If you need to add multiple resilience handlers, you should consider using the `AddResilienceHandler` extension method, which allows you to customize the resilience strategies.
```

## Add standard resilience handler

The standard resilience handler uses multiple resilience strategies stacked atop one another, with default options to send the requests and handle any transient errors. The standard resilience handler is added by calling the `AddStandardResilienceHandler` extension method on an <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> instance.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/http-resilience/Program.ServiceCollection.cs" id="services":::

The preceding code:

- Creates a <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceCollection> instance.
- Adds an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> for the `ExampleClient` type to the service container.
- Configures the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to use `"https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com"` as the base address.

> - Creates the `httpClientBuilder`, that's used throughout the other examples within this article.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Creates the `httpClientBuilder` that's used throughout the other examples within this article.
```

> A more real-world example would rely on hosting, such as that described in the [.NET Generic Host](../extensions/generic-host.md). Using the [Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting) NuGet package, consider the following updated example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A more real-world example would rely on hosting, such as that described in the [.NET Generic Host](../extensions/generic-host.md) article. Using the [Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting) NuGet package, consider the following updated example:
```

The preceding code adds the standard resilience handler to the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>. Like most resilience APIs, there are overloads that allow you to customize the default options and applied resilience strategies.

### Standard resilience handler defaults

The default configuration chains five resilience strategies in the following order (from the outermost to the innermost):

| Order | Strategy | Description |
|--:|--|--|
| **1** | Rate limiter | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. |
| **2** | Total request timeout | The total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request, including retry attempts, doesn't exceed the configured limit. |
| **3** | Retry | The retry pipeline retries the request in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. |
| **4** | Circuit breaker | The circuit breaker blocks the execution if too many direct failures or timeouts are detected. |
| **5** | Attempt timeout | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if it's exceeded. |

## Add standard hedging handler

> The standard hedging handler wraps the execution of the request with a standard hedging mechanism. Hedging retries slow requests in parallel. The standard hedging handler is added by calling the `AddStandardHedgingHandler` extension method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The standard hedging handler wraps the execution of the request with a standard hedging mechanism. Hedging retries slow requests in parallel.
```

To configure a weighted group, call the `ConfigureWeightedGroups` method on the `IRoutingStrategyBuilder` type. The following example configures the `IRoutingStrategyBuilder` to use the `ConfigureWeightedGroups` method to configure the weighted groups.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/http-resilience/Program.HedgingHandler.cs" id="weighted":::

The preceding code:

- Adds the hedging handler to the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder>.
- Configures the `IRoutingStrategyBuilder` to use the `ConfigureWeightedGroups` method to configure the weighted groups.
- Sets the `SelectionMode` to `WeightedGroupSelectionMode.EveryAttempt`.
- Adds a `WeightedEndpointGroup` to the `weightedGroup` that routes 33% of the requests to the `https://example.net/api/a` endpoint, 33% of the requests to the `https://example.net/api/b` endpoint, and 33% of the requests to the `https://example.net/api/c` endpoint.

> [!TIP]
> The maximum number of hedging attempts directly correlates to the number of configured groups. For example, if you have two groups, the maximum number of attempts is two.

> For more information, see [Polly docs: Hedging resilience strategy](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/hedging.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Polly docs: Hedging resilience strategy](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/hedging).
```

nit: you can drop `.html` from all Polly links

> It's common to configure either an ordered group or weighted group, but it's valid to configure both. Using ordered and weighted groups is helpful in scenarios where you want to send a percentage of the requests to a different endpoint, such is the case with A/B testing.

Reviewer 3: Can you standardize on a/b or A/B. I see both in this article.

## Add custom resilience handlers

To have more control, you can customize the resilience handlers by using the `AddResilienceHandler` API. This method accepts a delegate that configures the `ResiliencePipelineBuilder<HttpResponseMessage>` instance that is used to create the resilience strategies.

To configure a named resilience handler, call the `AddResilienceHandler` extension method with the name of the handler. The following example configures a named resilience handler called `"CustomPipeline"`.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/http-resilience/Program.CustomHandler.cs" id="custom":::

The preceding code:

- Adds a resilience handler with the name `"CustomPipeline"` as the `pipelineName` to the service container.
- Adds a retry strategy with exponential backoff, five retries, and jitter preference to the resilience builder.
- Adds a circuit breaker strategy with a sampling duration of 10 seconds, a failure ratio of 0.2 (20%), a minimum throughput of three, and a predicate that handles `RequestTimeout` and `TooManyRequests` HTTP status codes to the resilience builder.
- Adds a timeout strategy with a timeout of five seconds to the resilience builder.

> There are many options available for each of the resilience strategies. For more information, see the [Polly docs: Strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies). For more information about configuring `ShouldHandle` delegates, see [Polly docs: Fault handling in reactive strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/index.html#fault-handling-in-reactive-strategies).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many options available for each of the resilience strategies. For more information, see the [Polly docs: Strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies). For more information about configuring `ShouldHandle` delegates, see [Polly docs: Fault handling in reactive strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/index.html#fault-handling).
```

we simplified the section name

### Dynamic reload

> Polly supports dynamic reloading of the configured resilience strategies. This means that you can change the configuration of the resilience strategies at runtime. To enable dynamic reload, use the appropriate `AddResilienceHandler` overload that exposes the `ResilienceHandlerContext`. Given the context, call `EnableReloads` of the corresponding resilience strategy options:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Polly supports dynamic reloading of the configured resilience strategies. This means that you can change the configuration of the resilience strategies at run time. To enable dynamic reload, use the appropriate `AddResilienceHandler` overload that exposes the `ResilienceHandlerContext`. Given the context, call `EnableReloads` of the corresponding resilience strategy options:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/http-resilience/Program.CustomHandler.cs" id="advanced":::

The preceding code:

- Adds a resilience handler with the name `"AdvancedPipeline"` as the `pipelineName` to the service container.
- Enables the reloads of the `"AdvancedPipeline"` pipeline whenever the named `RetryStrategyOptions` options change.
- Retrieves the named options from the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Options.IOptionsMonitor%601> service.
- Adds a retry strategy with the retrieved options to the resilience builder.

> For more information, see [Polly docs: Advanced dependency injection](https://www.pollydocs.org/advanced/dependency-injection.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Polly docs: Advanced dependency injection](https://www.pollydocs.org/advanced/dependency-injection#dynamic-reloads).
```

This example relies on an options section that is capable of change, such as an _appsettings.json_ file. Consider the following _appsettings.json_ file:

:::code language="json" source="snippets/http-resilience/appsettings.json":::

> Now imagine that these options were bound to the apps configuration, binding the `HttpRetryStrategyOptions` to the `"RetryOptions"` section:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now imagine that these options were bound to the app's configuration, binding the `HttpRetryStrategyOptions` to the `"RetryOptions"` section:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/http-resilience/Program.cs" id="usage":::

The preceding code:

- Builds the <xref:System.IServiceProvider> from the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ServiceCollection>.
- Resolves the `ExampleClient` from the <xref:System.IServiceProvider>.
- Calls the `GetCommentsAsync` method on the `ExampleClient` to get the comments.
- Writes each comment to the console.

<!--
Mermaid diagram generated from the following code:

  https://mermaid.live/edit#pako:eNptU01vIjEM_SvW9NJKDCAOu2pWXYmvtpdKq8Kt7MGTeJi0mWSaeAQI-O-bmYGqoM3J9nt-dhxnn0inKBFJbtxGFugZlrOVhXjGt2-4Qc0gjSbL_SfiqSvLaIZx2Fn5904IsYGHh98wuc1R5JhmzjA8L5d_4Gm-hIE80e86wUnDPXTMtXEZpViS1xIDFMxVEIPBe3C2MiipcEaR7_Ou0k2D_Sh1gOl-32U3IXiOOa8UKmcDvVAIuKbjsas0bSu1jSwYuQ4wjRkCRsPhAWanZsNnjZ5SWZD8gEUtZdSAAbwS197C-arNJcNZNe2n_5O1zqat9ONJmr1GuzaU0lYaLJG1szD33vlYYFyza0ISjdk15fyuKUKd-mk8hB7mW5I1U6QE3TyBpFjWI9NaUziMu6aifggzymEDuTZG3OR5_usKoi9ISaWu0XBC1X3E76_RzNTn9Oyn-pGPrnEI7N0HiZvhcNjr7HSjFRdiVG2_q8EYsis3an-PTC4J00t3duk-Qpb0krhAJWoVF3jfgKuECypplYhoZhiitbLHyKsrFQc3V5qdT-KETaBegvElFnGTE8G-pjNppnHtsfxiUZv00n2T9rcc_wHXoA8n

-->

> Imagine a situation where the network was to go down, or the server was to become unresponsive. The following diagram shows how the resilience strategies would handle the situation, given the `ExampleClient` and the `GetCommentsAsync` method:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Imagine a situation where the network goes down or the server becomes unresponsive. The following diagram shows how the resilience strategies would handle the situation, given the `ExampleClient` and the `GetCommentsAsync` method:
```

| **4** | Circuit breaker | The circuit breaker blocks the execution if too many direct failures or timeouts are detected. |
| **5** | Attempt timeout | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if it's exceeded. |

## Add standard hedging handler

The standard hedging handler wraps the execution of the request with a standard hedging mechanism. Hedging retries slow requests in parallel. The standard hedging handler is added by calling the `AddStandardHedgingHandler` extension method.

To use the standard hedging handler, call `AddStandardHedgingHandler` extension method. The following example configures the `ExampleClient` to use the standard hedging handler.

```csharp
// A service collection is manually instantiated for this example.
// If you're using a generic host, you'll instead use its service collection:
//
// var host = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);
// host.Services.AddHttpClient<ExampleClient>(client => { ... });

var services = new ServiceCollection();

var builder = services.AddHttpClient<ExampleClient>(
    configureClient: static client =>
    {
        client.BaseAddress = new("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com");
    })

>     .AddStandardHedgingHandler();

Reviewer: How about routing aspects of hedging? The ability to configure different routes for individual requests?

Author: Done

---
title: Resilient patterns for HTTP apps
description: 
author: IEvangelist
ms.author: dapine
ms.date: 09/27/2023
---

# Resilient patterns for HTTP apps

> If you're app is using the [IHttpClientFactory](../extensions/httpclient-factory.md), you should install the [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience) NuGet package—as this package is specifically designed to provide resiliency mechanisms for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you're app is using the [IHttpClientFactory](../extensions/httpclient-factory.md), you should install the [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience) NuGet package—as this package is specifically designed to provide resiliency mechanisms for <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.
```

- Configures the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to use `"https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com"` as the base address.
- Adds the standard hedging resilience handler to the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.
- Declares a `builder` (of type `IStandardHedgingHandlerBuilder`), which is used to configure the standard hedging resilience handler. There are extension methods to configure the standard hedging resilience handler.

The `ExampleClient` is defined as follows:

:::code source="snippets/http-resilience/ExampleClient.cs":::

The preceding code:

- Defines an `ExampleClient` type that has a constructor that accepts an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.
- Exposes a `GetCommentsAsync` method that sends a GET request to the `/comments` endpoint and returns the response.

The `Comment` type is defined as follows:

:::code source="snippets/http-resilience/Comment.cs":::

### Standard hedging handler defaults

The standard hedging uses a pool of circuit breakers to ensure that unhealthy endpoints aren't hedged against. By default, the selection from the pool is based on the URL authority (scheme + host + port).

> [!TIP]

> > It's recommended that you configure the way the strategies are selected by calling `StandardHedgingHandlerBuilderExtensions.SelectPipelineByAuthority`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It's recommended that you configure the way the strategies are selected by calling `StandardHedgingHandlerBuilderExtensions.SelectPipelineByAuthority` or `StandardHedgingHandlerBuilderExtensions.SelectPipelineBy` for more advanced scenarios.
```

| Order | Strategy | Description |
|--:|--|--|
| **1** | Total request timeout | The total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request, including hedging attempts, doesn't exceed the configured limit. |
| **2** | Hedging | The hedging strategy executes the requests against multiple endpoints in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. Routing is options, by default it just hedges the URL provided by the original <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpRequestMessage>. |
| **3** | Rate limiter (per endpoint) | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. |
| **4** | Circuit breaker (per endpoint) | The circuit breaker blocks the execution if too many direct failures or timeouts are detected. |
| **5** | Attempt timeout (per endpoint) | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if it's exceeded. |

### Customize hedging handler route selection

> When using the standard hedging handler, you can customize the way the strategies are selected by calling various extensions on the `IRoutingStrategyBuilder` type. This can be useful for scenarios such as a/b testing, where you want to route a percentage of the requests to a different endpoint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the standard hedging handler, you can customize the way the request endpoints are selected by calling various extensions on the `IRoutingStrategyBuilder` type. This can be useful for scenarios such as a/b testing, where you want to route a percentage of the requests to a different endpoint:
```

or something similar, it's not about selecting strategies but selecting endpoint URLs

```csharp
// Hedging allows sending multiple concurrent requests.
// The builder is of type, IHttpClientBuilder.
builder.AddStandardHedgingHandler(static (IRoutingStrategyBuilder builder) =>
{
    builder.ConfigureOrderedGroups(static orderedGroup =>
    {

>         orderedGroup.Groups.Add(new EndpointGroup()

Reviewer: I suggest to add at least two groups. Having only one group means that hedging will never do secondary attempt. The maximum number of attempts is limited by number of groups, it's good to mention that.

        {

>             Endpoints =

Reviewer: fyi. every hedged attempt picks a group and selects single endpoint from that group based on the weights.

Author: Do I need to change anything here?

Reviewer: Nope, just informational comment :)

            {
                // Imagine a/b testing, where 3% of the requests are 
                // sent to the experimental endpoint.
                new() { Uri = new("https://example.com/experimental"), Weight = 3 },
                new() { Uri = new("https://example.com/stable"), Weight = 97 }
            }
        });
    });

>     builder.ConfigureWeightedGroups(static weightedGroup =>

Reviewer: maybe note that this call overrides the previous one i.e. last one wins?

Author: Done, split into two examples.

For more information, see [Polly docs: Hedging resilience strategy](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/hedging.html).

## Add custom resilience handlers

To have more control, you can customize the resilience handlers by calling the `AddResilienceHandler` extension method. This method takes a delegate that configures the `ResiliencePipelineBuilder<HttpResponseMessage>` instance that is used to create the resilience strategies.

To configure a named resilience handler, call the `AddResilienceHandler` extension method with the name of the handler. The following example configures a named resilience handler called `"CustomPipeline"`.

```csharp
// The builder is of type, IHttpClientBuilder.
builder.AddResilienceHandler(
    "CustomPipeline",
    static (ResiliencePipelineBuilder<HttpResponseMessage> builder,
            ResilienceHandlerContext context) =>
{
    // See: https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/retry.html
    builder.AddRetry(new HttpRetryStrategyOptions
    {

>         BackoffType = DelayBackoffType.Exponential,

Reviewer: Maybe here we can also include a sample to configure what responses and exceptions are retried by setting-up the `ShouldHandle` predicate?

You can use either switch expresions or `PredicateBuilder<HttpResponseMessage>.`

Author: I was showing an example of that below.

        MaxRetryAttempts = 5,
        UseJitter = true
    });

    // See: https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/circuit-breaker.html
    builder.AddCircuitBreaker(new HttpCircuitBreakerStrategyOptions
    {
        SamplingDuration = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(10),
        FailureRatio = 0.2,
        MinimumThroughput = 3,

>         ShouldHandle = static args =>

Reviewer: We should also include `TimeoutRejectedException` and `HttpRequestException` here.
 
Both of these should affect the circuit breaker.

Author: How do I update this to handle those two?

Reviewer: Check this link where both options are explained:

https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/index.html#fault-handling-in-reactive-strategies

- Adds a circuit breaker strategy with a sampling duration of 10 seconds, a failure ratio of 0.2 (20%), a minimum throughput of three, and a predicate that handles `RequestTimeout` and `TooManyRequests` HTTP status codes to the resilience builder.
- Adds a timeout strategy with a timeout of five seconds to the resilience builder.

There are many options available for each of the resilience strategies. For more information, see the [Polly docs: Strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies).

### Dynamic reload

Polly supports dynamic reload of the resilience strategies. This means that you can change the configuration of the resilience strategies at runtime. To enable dynamic reload, use the appropriate `AddResilienceHandler` overload that exposes the `ResilienceHandlerContext`. Given the context, call `EnableReloads` of the corresponding resilience strategy options:

```csharp
builder.AddResilienceHandler(
    "AdvancedPipeline",
    static (ResiliencePipelineBuilder<HttpResponseMessage> builder,
            ResilienceHandlerContext context) =>
{
    // Enable the reloads whenever the named options change

>     context.EnableReloads<RetryStrategyOptions>("my-retry-options");

Reviewer: Shall we also include how to register the options and enable reloading by using the `IConfigurationSection`. Or maybe this is out of scope of this article.

Author: Are you talking about `services.Configure<RetryStrategyOptions>(configSection)`

Reviewer: Yup. Up to you, not sure if it belongs here.

    // Retrieve the named options

>     var retryOptions =

Reviewer: nit: wait for convenience API and use it here?

https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/pull/4497

        context.ServiceProvider
            .GetRequiredService<IOptionsMonitor<RetryStrategyOptions<HttpResponseMessage>>>()
            .Get("my-retry-options");

    // Add retries using the resolved options
    builder.AddRetry(retryOptions);
});
```

The preceding code:

- Adds a resilience handler with the name `"AdvancedPipeline"` as the `pipelineName` to the service container.

> - Enables the reloads of the `RetryStrategyOptions` named `"my-retry-options"` whenever the named options change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enables the reloads of the `"AdvancedPipeline"` pipeline whenever the named `RetryStrategyOptions` options change.
```

To add resilience to an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>, you chain a call on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> type that is returned from calling any of the available <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.HttpClientFactoryServiceCollectionExtensions.AddHttpClient%2A> methods. There are several resilience-centric extensions available, some are standard employing various industry best practices, and others are more customizable.

When adding resilience, you should only add one resilience handler and avoid stacking handlers. If you need to add multiple resilience handlers, you should consider using the `AddResilienceHandler` extension method, which allows you to customize the resilience strategies.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > All of the following examples use the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.HttpClientFactoryServiceCollectionExtensions.AddHttpClient%2A> extension method, from the [Microsoft.Extensions.Http](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http), which return an <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> instance. The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> instance is used to configure the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> and add the resilience handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> All of the following examples use the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.HttpClientFactoryServiceCollectionExtensions.AddHttpClient%2A> extension method, from the [Microsoft.Extensions.Http](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http) NuGet package, which return an <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> instance. The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder> instance is used to configure the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> and add the resilience handler.
```

- Adds a circuit breaker strategy with a sampling duration of 10 seconds, a failure ratio of 0.2 (20%), a minimum throughput of three, and a predicate that handles `RequestTimeout` and `TooManyRequests` HTTP status codes to the resilience builder.
- Adds a timeout strategy with a timeout of five seconds to the resilience builder.

> There are many options available for each of the resilience strategies. For more information, see the [Polly docs: Strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies). For more information about configuring `ShouldHandle` delegates, see [Polly docs: Fault handling in reactive strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/index.html#fault-handling).

Reviewer 2: The links to pollydocs.org seem to mix and match "page.html" links and not. I think you can update them all to be like the `https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies` one.
